Daily returns are one of the most important factors for us to consider when looking at market statistics. But daily returns for a single stock just by themselves are not very informative. One of the most informative ways to consider daily returns is when we compare the returns of one stock with another. We're going to use daily returns as a basis for the analysis in this lesson and we build daily returns, like we've seen before, by starting with a price time series. And each point in this daily return chart is related to how much price has changed on that corresponding day. So, for instance, this represents how much the price changed from this day to that day, about 1%. And, of course, we have that for each of the days in our history. Now looking at this data, this daily return data, it's not too revealing. It's hard to draw any sorts of interesting conclusions just by visually looking at this data from day to day. And so, there's a number of interesting ways that we can look at that data, and that's what this lesson is all about. Those two ways are histograms and scatter plots. Let's start by taking a look at histograms. A histogram is a kind of bar chart where we plot the number of occurrences of each item versus the value. So the way we accomplish that is, we split up the range of data into lots of little bins. And we count up how many times the data matches the range across that bin. So, as an example, if you notice here we've got several occurrences of this value, which is about the same, and those three occurrences are probably in say, this bin. So when we go to plot the histogram overall, we would see a bar of the appropriate height here that represents how many times the data matched that value. And of course, we have values in other bins, and so the bars in those bins would have various heights. And as you gather that data across all of time, a shape emerges of this histogram, and that provides a lot of information. So let's consider what that shape might look like. Suppose now that we've looked at, say the S&P 500 over many years and we've measured each day what the daily return is for the S&P 500. And we conduct a histogram and plot that histogram. So, for each little bin we have a bar there. What is the shape of this histogram going to look like? Do you think the bars, when we put them all together, will have a sort of flat shape, maybe a triangular shape, or something that's more like a bell curve? Check the box next to the histogram that you think is the best answer. The correct answer is bell curve. We might also be interested in the standard deviation. Which is essentially on average how far do individual measurements deviate from the mean. Another very important measure is something called Kurtosis. Kurtosis comes from a Greek word that means curved or arching. So what does Kurtosis mean? Well let me show you. Kurtosis tells us about the tails of the distribution. So the tails are the parts out here towards the ends. And if we assume that our distribution is similar to a Gaussian distribution, or normal distribution. The measure of kurtosis tells us how much different our histogram isfrom that traditional Gaussian distribution. So in this case we have what are called fat tails. We got them over here and over here. What that means is that there are occasional, and more frequent than would happen if we had a regular Gaussian distribution. There are frequently large excursions more frequently than if this was a normal distribution. If you were to measure the kurtosis of this histogram, you would get a positive number. Meaning that there are more occurrences out in these tails. Than would be expected if it were a normal distribution. If you measured a negative kurtosis. It would mean that there are many fewer occurrences out here on the tails. Than would be expected if it were a normal distribution. So we can plot our data in this sort of bar chart called a histogram. We can measure statistics on it like standard deviation, mean and kurtosis. And remember the following about kurtosis. If we’ve got a positive kurtosis, that means we’ve got fat tails, like in this example. There’s more occurrences outside in the tails than would normally happen with a Gaussian distribution. And if we’ve got a negative kurtosis, we’ve got skinny tails, meaning there’s less out there. 