In this lesson, we're going to take a look at the various kinds of statistics that we can take on time series data. Let's start first with global statistics. Consider our trusty data frame DF1 with columns for SPY, XOM, Google, and Gold. We can take the mean of each of these columns very simply with a statement like this. This statement will take the mean of each column and put it in the appropriate location of a new one-dimensional or row-wise of the array. Now because this is a data frame, and remember, a data frame augments NumPy and provides a lot more functionality. It's sort of in the array on steroids. Now let's start computing statistics. First we compute mean. We need mean of stock prices for each symbol. And dataframe.mean will do this for us. As professor explained, it computes mean for each column. And our columns denote one stock each. So we get mean for all stocks in just one line of code. So to compute the mean, we just called the name of the data frame df.mean. Let's check the output. Note how Pandas prints the mean for each symbol properly labeled. Also, here's the graph with all the symbols and their data. Similarly, we can compute median and standard deviation. Let's do it. We compute the median of the data frame by calling the median function. Remember the difference between the mean and the median. Mean is the average of a set of values that is the total sum divided by number of values. Whereas median refers to the value in the middle when they are all sorted. Now let's try standard deviation. We compute the standard deviation by calling the function std over the data frame. Now we're going to look at something called Daily Returns. Daily returns are one of the most important statistics used in financial analysis. So let's consider first here this time series, S&P 500 in 2012. What daily returns are is simply how much did the price go up or down on a particular day? So, for instance, on this day it went down a little. On the next day it went up a lot. Daily returns are calculated easily using a simple equation here. So the daily return for day t, let's say today, is simply today's stock price divided by yesterdays' stock price, minus one. Where looking at daily returns can be really important and revealing is to compare daily returns between different stocks or different assets. So, for example we might compare how Exxon moves in comparison to S&P 500. As one example, if you take a look at this section here you can see that when S&P 500 went up, Exxon went down and that's revealed here in this section of the daily returns. We're going to spend a lot of time in some future lessons, looking at how these statistics, specifically how daily returns between different assets, can be revealing. Dave is going to show you now in Python, how to calculate these daily return values. One last important statistic on a stock that's important is called cumulative returns. So let's consider S&P 500, again, back in 2012. Now in 2012, the S&P 500 started the year at $125, and it ended the year at $142. When you listen to the news you hear things like, for the year 2012 S&P 500 gained 13.6%. That is cumulative return. You don't hear them say over 2012 S&P 500 went from $125 to $142. So how do you calculate these cumulative returns? It's really easy. Here's the equation. The cumulative return for a particular day, t, is just today's price divided by the price at the beginning. So price of zero is over here, and the price of any particular day, say would be here. And we can calculate the value like this. Now the cumulative return for the whole period is where t is this last day. So let's consider the example we've got here. To calculate the cumulative return for this whole year. It's the price at the end, divided by the price at the beginning, minus one. Turns out 142/125 is 1.136- 1 gives us .136 Which is equal to 13.6%. So our cumulative return for the ETF SPY was 13.6%. We can calculate and chart cumulative returns just like we did earlier for daily returns, except now the plot is showing us the cumulative return of course instead of the data return. Note that the shape of the chart is the same as the price chart. It's just now it's normalized, and in fact this equation is exactly our normalization equation. So that is how to calculate and plot cumulative returns. We're not going to have Dave show you how to do that, you're on your own there, now that you know how to do daily returns, it shouldn't be that tough. Okay, that's it for this lesson, we'll see you again soon.