Historical financial data is of course essential for effective financial research. One reason people are attracted to finance as an area of research, is because they believe the data is very well documented. In other words, all the data is monitored and recorded by computer and saved for us to pore over later. It turns out though that there are many ways the data can be faulty. In this lesson, we're going to look at how missing data can occur and what we can do about it. Now, as you might have guessed, the data isn't really pristine. So, here's what people think financial data is like. They imagine that it's perfectly recorded minute by minute. The prices that are recorded are exactly right. The volume data is exactly right. But that's not the case. But that's not the only mistake [LAUGH] people make about what they think the data's like. People assume there's no gaps in the data, that we have every single minute recorded. That data for stocks started since the beginning of time, and they continue to the very last minute. The reality is that our data is an amalgamation created from many, many sources. For instance, for any particular stock, it may be traded on the New York Stock Exchange, at NASDAQ, at Bats, and over any particular minute during the day, it may trade at one price at New York Stock Exchange, another price at NASDAQ. The reality is that there's no single price for any stock at any particular time. In fact, it's hard to say who's right. So, the reality of the data that we get is that it's a combination from all these different sources. And different data providers will provide, actually, different numbers. And finally, one part of reality that's especially troublesome is not all stocks trade everyday. Sometimes stocks come into existence and suddenly, there's values for them and before that there was no data. Sometimes stocks go out of existence and suddenly, they quit existing and there's no data for them going forward. There's another kind of failure mode or missing data mode where a particular stock will be trading, data will be missing, suddenly, it starts trading again. And these are the sorts of problems we're going to take a look at and find a way to solve in this lesson. Okay, let's take a look at some examples so we can see how prices are recorded over time. We'll start with SPY. This is showing a time series of that ETF over time. This is the downturn in 2008, 2009. SPY represents the S&P 500. It's one of the most liquid and actively traded ETFs out there, and we typically use it as a reference, a time and date reference for other stocks. Because we know if SPY was trading, the stock market was open and we can use its time history as a reference in that regard. It goes all the way back to 1993. There are of course some stocks that go back further, all the way to 1901 and so on. But most of what we're going to do, it's fine that we know it's been active since 1993. Now Let's look at a couple more examples. 