Up until this point we've been computing statistics about individual stocks. We're going to shift now to computing statistics on portfolios. We're going to focus on some of the most important statistics that are used to evaluate the performance of portfolios and accordingly portfolio managers. We'll define a portfolio as an allocation of funds to a set of stocks. We can calculate the value for each of these days by taking the sum of pos_vals, position vals using axis=1, so that's telling python to sum across each row like that. So that sums each day across into Port_val, which now reflects the value each day for our total portfolio. Let's recap now. We start with our prices. We normalize that to the first day, so the first row here is all ones. We multiply it times our allocations, and that gives us now in each column, the relative value of each of those aspects over time. We multiply by our initial investment, and that causes now each row to be the real value of that investment each day over time, starting with our initial allocations. If we then sum each row we get the value of the portfolio on each corresponding day, and that's it. That's how you calculate daily portfolio value. We showed a moment ago how to go from prices to port-val, which is the daily total value of the portfolio. Now that we have port-val, we can compute a number of important statistics on the portfolio, and thus assess the portfolio and the investment style of whoever is managing that portfolio. An important first calculation is to compute daily returns. We've talked about how to do that before, so I won't go over it here. But an important observation is whenever you compute daily returns, the first value is always going to be zero. And that's because on the first day, of course, there's no change. So we want to exclude that value from any calculations we do across all daily returns. The original vision for the Sharpe ratio is that it's an annual measure. So if we're sampling at frequencies other than annually, we need to add an adjustment factor to make it all work out. So if we have our original sharp ratio over here we multiply it by an adjustment factor called K to get the annualized version. Now what is K? K is simply the square root of the number of samples per year. Since if we're using daily data. There are 252 trading days per year, so K is the square root of 252. If we're, say, taking weekly samples, it'd be square root of 52. Important thing to keep is mind is the number in here is the rate at which we're sampling. So as an example, let's suppose we were trading for 85 days. Because we're sampling at a daily rate, we use this number for our K. Square root of 252. Even though we only traded for 89 days, we use 252 here because we're sampling daily. It's the frequency at which we sample that effects this value for K. So, recapping, if we sample the value of our portfolio monthly, K is the square root of 12, if we do it weekly, it's the square root of 52 because there's 52 weeks in a year, and if we sampled daily, it's square root of 252. Now you know how to compute daily portfolio values and, from there, important portfolio statistics. The main ones we're going to focus on are cumulative return, average daily return, standard deviation of daily return, or risk, and Sharpe ratio. These are the key factors most people focus on when evaluating the performance of a portfolio. The assignment associated with this lesson is for you to build a function that can calculate these values automatically. You've got what you need to build this, so have at it.