In this lesson I'll show you how all of that works. As an illustration of how hedge funds use CAPM, let's consider a two stock scenario. So our hedge fund has done some research maybe they've used machine learning, maybe they've used some other method or maybe they've just thought very hard and for whatever reason they predict that stock A is going to go up 1% over the market in the next ten days. And they've looked backwards in history and observed that the beta for stock A, with regard to the market, is 1.0. So plus 1% beta of 1.0. They've looked at another stock, B, which they predict to go down 1% whichever way the market goes, it'll go 1% below it. And the beta for stock B is 2.0. So this introduces for the first time this idea of a long short portfolio. In other words, we think that stock A's going to go up, so we should long it. And we think stock B's going to go down, so we should short it. And there's some strong advantages to this long short approach that'll begin to emerge as we go through this lesson. So we're going to talk a look at a couple scenarios with these two stocks to see how we should best allocate between the two. So looking back, this is what the S&P 500 has been doing. Remember stock A has a beta of one, so it follows what the S&P 500 does pretty closely. Stock B, on the other hand, has this beta of greater than one, or two. And so it's reacting much more wildly than stock A. Here's our first scenario. Let's assume the market stays flat, in other words it returns 0% over these following ten days, and that we enter our positions as of this day and our positions are going to be a $50 long position in stock A and a $50 short position in stock B. Now assume going forward also that our predictions are perfect. That A goes up 1% over the market and B goes down 1% below the market. What will happen? Well, if our predictions were perfect, stock B should go down 1% below the market, and stock A should go up 1% above the market. Let's pull out the CAPM and take a look at this portfolio. Remember, this is beta for the portfolio. Can we make beta for the portfolio = 0? Or in other words, can we find weights for A and B, such that their sum turns out to be 0? What are these two weights so that the overall portfolio beta is 0? Suppose we have two stocks, our stock A and our stock B. These are the same two stocks we've been working with. The question is what should the weights be so that we can minimize or eliminate market risk. Okay, so we want to find two weights, A and B. So these are the two parts that relate to the return on the market, and we'll bring them together. So for stock A we have 0.66, and our beta is 1.0. And for stock B we've got -0.33 times 2 times the return on the market. So because of all that work we did to figure out these values, we know already that this is going to become 0. We'll carry down our two alpha components, so for stock A, our alpha expectation is 1%, and our weighting is 0.66. For stock B, our weighting is negative one third, times -1, our expectation is just going to go down 1.0%. So combining these two, 0.66 plus 0.33 gives us a 1.0% expected return. Whichever way the market goes. Remember, we eliminated the return on the market. So, whichever way the market goes, we can expect to get 1% return. Now, need to add a lot of caveats here. These betas aren't necessarily fully guaranteed to continue into the future, and these alphas aren't guaranteed, either. These are just estimates that we computed based on information we thought we had, so this is not a guaranteed thing by any means, but it is a way to use long/short investing to reduce exposure to the market overall and to focus on those alpha components where we do have information. Let's bring it all together now, how hedge funds can use CAPM effectively. Assuming we have some sort of actionable information that we can convert into a forecast alpha, in other words, a prediction for a particular stock i, about which way it's going to go. And also the beta of that stock with regard to the market. We can do the following. We can minimize market risk by finding a beta for our portfolio that's equal to zero. And we can do that by finding the appropriate weights on each individual stock. So, CAPM can be a really valuable tool in terms of portfolio construction because it can enable you to build these portfolios that are less exposed to market risk. And this is where the whole idea of long short trading came about. You know, CAPM really enables you to refine that. All right, that is it for now. We'll see you again soon. Thank you.