Data is, of course, very important for computational investing. The core data and the primary data we will work with in this course is historical price and volume data. That's what we'll focus on in this lesson. Our first step in considering data is to think about how it's aggregated. Now, all of the concepts that we teach here, you can just as easily apply at smaller time periods. It just requires more computing, faster computing, more and larger databases, and so on. So that's why we look at daily data in this course, is there's a little bit less data to work with. We've got the price of a stock, trundling along. On this date, the dividend is announced that it will be paid on this date. And so we see, in general, the price rising up until that date and then a strong drop. And again, the consensus value for the company is about $100. Let's consider now how we might adjust historical prices for this situation. Again, adjusted price as of today or the latest day in our data, is always the same as the actual price. And as we go back in time, it remains about the same until we hit one of these events like a dividend or a split. So we treat, historically, the price in the same way that we do with this split. In other words, just before the dividend is paid, we adjust all of these prices down by the proportion of the dividend. So in this case we adjust everything down by about 1%, all the way back in history. So our adjusted price continues like this. Now to double check this for rationality, consider that you bought the stock around this date and you held it all the way though the dividend payment you would get an increase in value of your holding of about one dollar. So the adjustment is achieving its purpose, which is to allow us to not worry about dividends and splits. Just go back in time, buy, and hold the share, and see how much our value accumulates. So for the data we'll be working with in this class, which are daily close values, we have in our data both actual and adjusted. And in almost every instance I will assume that we're using adjusted closed prices in our calculations. Another couple things to reiterate about adjustments is the last day in our file, usually that's as of today, the adjusted and actual close value are the same. So any day that you look, say you've gotta go to Yahoo Finance or Google Finance and you get adjusted close and actual close, you'll see that today they're exactly the same price, but as you go back in time they will begin to diverge and the prices we use are adjusted for both dividends and splits, and it's very important that you always use adjusted close. One other thing to mention is suppose we had this data as of 2012. And so this last date here in our file is some date in 2012, and you go and you look at the adjusted close, let's suppose this is some date in 2010. That value, that adjusted close value, will be different if you gather data from, say, 2015. You apply your algorithm to choose which stocks you might buy. A very common mistake that people make is that they look at the membership of that universe, as of today. Then they go back in time and they use that list of stocks for their strategy. So let's suppose we go back in time, we take the current list of the S&P 500, and we run our strategy and our strategy is just doing great. I'm going to call that the biased strategy. So why is it biased? Well, we're selecting from stocks way back here that we knew were existing over here, so there's a built in bias that these stocks are going to do well because they weathered the storm here. Now consider, what if we use the S&P 500 as it was back in 2007? So a lot of the stocks from back then did just fine, they survived, but a lot didn't. 68 stocks from the S&P 500 died. They completely went away, from 2007 to 2009. So if you applied the same strategy that appears to be so awesome, but you use the real members of the S&P 500 from back then, you're probably going to have a significantly lower performance. And the difference between these two is the bias. The lesson learned is to use survivor bias free data and that's available from a number of providers. It's not usually free, but it's not necessarily that expensive either. But if you do that, you'll avoid this sort of false optimism for a strategy that you develop.