This course is about buying and selling stocks, so we're going to look at why company value matters with regard to buying and selling stocks. Of course, we want to buy a stock when the price is too low and we want to sell it when it's too high. In general, the value of a company goes up monotonically. In other words, it is always increasing over time. Let's assume for a moment, this is the true value of that company. We'll address in a little bit what true means, but let's assume for the moment that we have some understanding of the underlying real value of that company. Now that true value is distinct and different from the value estimated by the market. In other words, what price the stock market says, it's worth? So on one particular day, maybe the price is higher than the true value. On some other day, maybe it's lower and on some other day, it's the same. Very many trading strategies, which is what this course is about, focus on identifying situations where the current stock price is different from the true value. So in other words, if the stock price goes up a lot, but we know the actual company is only worth a certain amount. When it goes up high, that might be a selling opportunity. In other words, if we see the price up here and we know the true value of the company is down here, sell it. And similarly, if we see the price really low compared to what the company is worth, that could represent a buying opportunity. There are many, many ways that we can estimate the true value of a company. We're going to touch on a few of them in this lesson. One is intrinsic value, this is based on the value of the company as estimated by future dividends. In other words, companies pay many companies not all, pay each year or each quarter a dividend. So it's a cash payment, if you own a share of stock, you get a certain amount of dividend. For instance, for Apple this year, it's about $2 per year. So intrinsic value is based on, if we own one share of stock, we're going to get some amount of dividends accumulated over all of the future. What's the value of the company based on that? Another is book value, which is based on the assets that the company owns. So in other words, we add up the value of all the factories that they own and so on. Finally is market cap. This is based on the value of the stock on the market and how many shares are outstanding. So in other words, this relates to what is the market think the company is worth? This relates to what's the value of the sum of the assets? And this one relates to, well, if I own a share of stock, how much money am I going to get over the future? And what's that worth overall in the future going forward? We're going to consider now the intrinsic value of our one dollar machine. In other words, this machine generates one dollar every year. Now to understand that, we need to think about what is the future value of a dollar. What do I mean by that? Well, let's suppose I told you, hey look, awesome student, I promise I will give you $1 in a year. So, many stock trading strategies look for deviations between say, intrinsic value and market cap if intrinsic value drops significantly and the stock price say is high, it may be worthwhile to short that stock. Or if say dividends are going up and the market capitalization is low it might be an opportunity to buy the stock. And similarly book value provides a sort of lowest price, when stock price begins to approach book value, you can pretty much assume that the price is not going to go below book value. Or not much below it, because if it does, a predatory buyer would buy the whole company, and break it up for parts. Anyhow, that's company valuation. And I look forward to seeing you at the next lesson. Bye bye.