There are two broad categories of approaches to use for choosing stocks to buy or sell. They're based on Fundamental analysis and Technical analysis. Fundamental analysis involves looking at aspects of a company in order to estimate its value. Fundamental investors typically look for situations where the price of a company is below its value. Another camp is based on Technical analysis. Technicians don't care about the value of a company. Instead, they look for patterns or trends in a stock's price. This lesson will focus on technical analysis. One of the most important things to remember about technical analysis is that it looks only at price and volume. That's as opposed to fundamental analysis that looks at fundamental factors, like earnings, dividends, cash flow, book value, and so on. Indicators are heuristics that may hint at a buy or sell opportunity. So individual indicators are weak. However, combining multiple indicators adds value. Our next indicator is simple moving average or SMA. And again, it's indexed by n, which is how many days are we looking back. So if we want to calculate the value of the simple moving average for this day, we look back over n days, and this is called an n-day window. So the SMA for today is simply the average of the values over this look back period. So it would be a value about right there. And if we carry it forward, it'll look like this. So, the SMA looks essentially like a smoothed value of the price chart as it moves around. And an important thing to note is it sort of lags the movement. And remember, this is over a look back window of n-days. Divide that into the price and subtract one. So, if, for instance, the price is 10% above the simple moving average, we'd end up getting a positive 0.1. If it were 10% below, we'd get a negative 0.1. And when we see high volatility, you probably want to use a larger number. Well, how can we accomplish that, well, we can use the standard deviation. So what Bollinger suggested was, okay, let's take this simple moving average, but let's add a band above and below two standard deviations. And that's our measure for how strong of a deviation we want to see before we respond to it. Bollinger Band typically inhabits -1.0 to 1.0. But the Bollinger Band factor would tend to overwhelm these other factors and become the most important one. It might get even worse if we included fundamental factor like PE ratio that can range from 1 all the way up to 300. The solution is something called normalization. And what normalization does it takes each of these factors and essentially compresses them or stretches them so that they vary on average from -1 to +1. Normalization is simple, you take your original values for a particular factor subtract the mean from all of them, then divide by the standard deviation of all of them. This will give you a normed result that, on average, is going to vary between -1 and 1, and it'll have a mean of 0. So to review, technical indicators are really heuristics that represent someone's interpretation or hunch of how a statistical approach to previous prices and volume might suggest future price movement. The particular examples that I've provided here are my approach.