We haven't stated these explicitly, but we've been operating under some assumptions. For technical analysis we assume that there is information in historical price and volume data that we can discover and exploit in advance of the market. For fundamental analysis we assume there is information in fundamental data, like earnings, that can be exploited and traded upon in advance of the market. The efficient markets hypothesis says we're wrong about both. The first ideas that eventually became the Efficient Markets Hypothesis were postulated by Jules Regnault in 1863. Eugene Fama carried those ideas further in the 1960's, and it became his PhD thesis. Fama recently received a Nobel Prize, so we know those ideas were good. So what's the efficient market hypothesis about? We'll start by looking at some of the assumptions that it makes. Probably the most important assumption is it that there are a large numbers of investors interacting in the market for profit. So they have an incentive to find opportunities where the price of a stock is out of line with what its true value is. Because there are so many of these investors operating simultaneously, any time a little bit of information comes out there, the price is going to move. The next assumption is that new information arrives randomly. So it arrives at random times, it arrives at random rates for different stocks, but it's constantly arriving and investors are paying attention to that information and therefore the prices are adjusting quickly. Finally, the efficient market hypothesis assumes that the current price reflects all available information. In other words, all this information that's trickling in is acted upon by the investors, the price adjusts quickly to that information, and the current price reflects all of the information about that stock. There's a number of places information can come from. Let's step through a few of these sorted from most public to least public. But even this is certainly not an exhaustive list. There's many other places we can get information. But let's step through them. Price volume, this is public. It's rapid, it's quick, everybody can see it. This is the basis of technical analysis. Fundamental data. This is reported quarterly and everybody can see it as well. It's public, but it points more to the root of the value of the company than just the price volume. Exogenous data, that's a fancy name for a simple concept. It's just information about the world that effects the company. As an example, if we were looking at an airline stock, an exogenous piece of data that would effect the price of the airline stock is the price of oil. If price of oil goes down, usually the price of the airline stock goes up because energy is the number one cost for airlines. A very important and secretive type of information relates to company insiders. So, let's suppose you're a CEO, and you know that this drug that you've invented is about to be improved. So this shows that price/earnings ratios are very predictive across many, many decades of future returns, and that tends to refute the semi-strong version of the EMH. Okay, that's it for the efficient markets hypothesis. I will see you again soon, bye, bye.