In this lesson, we're going to cover one of the most significant ideas affecting finance in the last century. It explains how the market impacts individual stock prices. And it also provides a mathematical framework for hedge fund investing. It's called the capital asset pricing model or CAPM for short. It was developed by a number of researchers independently in the 1960s. William Sharpe, Harry Markowitz and Merton Miller jointly received the nobel prize for this contribution in 1990. The CAPM led to the development of index funds and the belief that you can't beat the market Before we launch into details of the capital assets pricing model, we have to lay down a little bit of groundwork. Let's start with the definition of a portfolio. A portfolio is a weighted set of assets. We're finally able now to get to the core of the capital assets pricing model, and that's expressed in this single equation that's really important. You need to memorize it and understand it. And here's what that equation is. So the capital assets pricing model says that the return for an individual stock on a particular day t = beta times the return on the market. This other component, alpha, is called the residual. So of course, if you look at all the stocks over one day and look at how much the market goes up or down, and you calculate how much the stock should have gone up or down according to beta. Well there'll be something left over. It won't exactly match what beta predicted. And that's what this alpha or residual component is. An important part of the capital assets pricing model is that the expectation for alpha is 0. Essentially this is a random variable with an expected value of 0. It's important to remember that. Where do we get this beta and this alpha? Well, it comes from daily returns and essentially how the daily returns for a particular stock relate to the daily returns of the market. The CAPM says two important things about alpha. First, it's random. You can't predict it, and the expected value is zero. CAPM asserts that this alpha is random with mean 0. In downward markets we want smaller beta. Let's summarize now the implications of CAPM. Let's start first with the equation. So the CAPM tells us that the expected return on our portfolio is the veta of the portfolio times the return on the market plus alpha of the portfolio. The first point, an important point, is that alpha is random, and the expected value of alpha is zero. So that excludes alpha from our toolbox of ways to make money. What's left? So the only way we can beat the market now is by cleverly choosing beta, so that when the market is going up, we choose a positive beta, and when a markets going down we choose a lower or even negative beta. So CAPM says the only way we can beat the market is with high beta and up markets and low beta and down markets. The only problem with that is the efficient markets hypothesis. We haven't covered that yet, but it's coming soon. But anyways, the efficient markets hypothesis says you can't predict the market. So, these avenues are not available to you, either. So, all these things taken together say that you can't beat the market. If the capital assets pricing model is true, we can't beat the market. Now, I don't believe that, and this whole course is about ways that you can potentially beat the market. So, we're going to get to those eventually, but we had to present the capital assets pricing model as a framework in which to consider all these other things. Now before we close, there's one other thing I want to touch on. It's called Arbitrage Pricing Theory. Arbitrage Pricing Theory was developed by Stephen Ross and first published in 1976. So Dr. Ross observed the CAPM as it was. But he said look, we have this single beta that represents a particular stock's relationship to the market. Maybe really we ought to have multiple betas. The CAPM is really only allowing us to consider a stock in the entire ocean. And his idea, if you continue the sort of analogy we've been doing in this class, is that we ought to consider the different islands. In other words, a particular stock might have exposure to different aspects of the market. So, the stock might have some exposure to finance, so we could compute the component of return due to finance via the beta with regard to finance and the return for finance of that day. So we could compute for each stock, for each sector, and individual beta. And so his assertion was that by breaking out the betas into these different factors, we could get a more accurate forecast of what the return's going to look like. And of course we still have our alpha over here. We're not going to use APT in this class, but since we've been going forward with this analogy of oceans and islands and so on, I wanted to bring it to your attention because I thought you might find it interesting. Okay, that's it for the capital assets pricing model. I'll see you again soon.