You're probably familiar with Warren Buffett. He's one of the most successful investors ever. He's made a number of insightful comments over the years, many of which relate to this class. One of my favorites is, only when the tide goes out do you discover who's been swimming naked. That's not the one for this lesson though. The one for this lesson is. Wide diversification is only necessary when investors do not know what they are doing. Mr. Buffett is talking about two things. Investor skill and breadth or the number of investments. This lesson is about how investment performance relates to those two factors. In the 1980s, Richard Grinold was seeking a method of relating performance, skill, and breadth in investing. So for instance, you might be a very skilled investor, meaning that you can pick stocks well, but you might not have many opportunities or breadth to exercise that skill. So Grinold felt that there must be some equation whereby we could combine skill and breadth to create an estimate of performance. He developed a relationship he called the Fundamental Law of Active Portfolio Management. I'm going to state it here at the beginning of the lesson, and then spend the rest of the lesson trying to justify it and show you why it makes sense. And here's his expression, performance is equal to skill times the square root of breadth. So we need some measure of skill and some measure of breadth. So if you want to improve your performance you can improve skill, or you can find more and more applications or methods or opportunities for applying that skill. So, as an example breadth might relate to how many stocks you invest in and skill relates to your skill in choosing them. So, again you can invest in either improving your skill or improving your breadth. So performance is summarized in something called information ratio, which is very much like the sharpe ratio that we've discussed before, but it refers to the sharpe ratio of excess returns, in other words the manner in which the portfolio manager is exceeding the market's performance. Skill is summarized in something called Information coefficient and and breadth is just how many trading opportunities we have. Okay. So, we'll expand more and more on this as we go through the lesson. Now we're going to explore these ideas in a thought experiment called the coin flipping casino. So, instead of buying and selling stocks, we're going to flip coins and we're going to be on the outcome of whether those coins come up heads or tails. So that's analogous to a single investment in a stock, or a single trade in a stock, where you buy it and hold it and either you make money or you lose money. You can increase your breadth by looking at additional commodities. However, the strength of this increase, in other words, as you increase breadth, the overall performance only increases as the square root of that breadth. So it tapers off after some amount of time. It turns out, though, that it's very, very hard to improve your skill, so that is why, for instance, folks often focus on the breadth component of this equation. Let's get back to that original question that motivated some of this, which is how can we relate the performance of Renaissance technologies? Or Jim Simons versus Warren Buffet? And the quiz here is for you to use the fundamental law to see if you can relate the two. Okay, so for this problem, assume that both Simons and Buffet have the same information ratio. I'm making that up, I don't know for sure that they do. But this is just a simplification for this problem. Assume that Simons' algorithms are only one 1000th as smart as Buffet. So that's another way of saying that their information coefficient is one 1000th the value of Buffet. Also assume that Buffet trades 120 times per year. Given that, how many trades must Simons execute in order to maintain the information ratio at the same level as Buffet? The answer is 120 million, so if Buffet trades only 120 times per year, Simons has to trade 120 million times. So here's how I arrived at that. We know that their information ratios are the same, so we just set the equation equal to each other. One for Simons and one for Buffet. So the information coefficient for Buffet, times square to 120. This is Buffet's information ratio. Now this is Simon's information ratio. It's his information coefficient times the square root of x, which is what we're trying to find. Now first thing we can do is replace ICS with what we know is that it's one-one thousandth of Buffet's. Now we can multiply both sides by 1,000. And divide both sides by Buffet's IC. And we get this. And now we just square both sides and we're left with x or 120 million. Okay, that's it for the fundamental law of active portfolio management. I'll see you again soon, thanks.