Suppose you have a set of stocks that you've determined are good investments. How much of your portfolio should you invest in each? There are many potential answers to that question. In this lesson we take a look at the approach called mean variance optimization, or portfolio optimization. The specific question we're looking to answer is this. Given a set of equities and a target return, find an allocation to each equity that minimizes risk. If we're going to find a portfolio or an allocation of assets to different stocks that minimizes risk, we have to pause for a moment and consider what is risk. Let's consider two stocks, XYZ, here that's gone up about ten percent, but as you can see, it's been very volatile. Here's the historical price of another stock, ABC. It also went up ten percent over this same time period, but as you can see, it was less volatile. So it's this volatility that we use as a measure of risk and that is simply the standard deviation of historical daily returns. Again, in this case, risk is measured as volatility or standard deviation of historical daily returns. That's the standard view of risk in most finance texts. There are other ways to view risk that we touch upon here and there through this course but the key is standard deviation of daily returns. Now, as you've probably heard over and over and over again, there's no reward without risk. And we often want to consider multiple stocks together and evaluate their risk versus return. So, one way we can do that is plot them on a scatter plot where each dot here represents one stock. So risk goes along this axis. Return is along this axis. So for instance, this stock here has higher risk, but about the same return as this stock. And then for comparison, this stock here has shown, historically about the same risk as this stock, but it's got a much higher return. Now we can build the portfolio by combining multiple assets, like the various stocks I've got plotted here and waiting each asset by a particular wait that represents it's allocation within the portfolio. So each stock has a wait and when combined altogether we end up with a portfolio that has properties of each of the stocks. There's one last topic I wanted to talk about with regard to portfolio optimizers and modern portfolio theory. Consider these assets, and also recognize that for any particular return level, there is an optimal portfolio. So let's suppose we picked this return level, and that this is the optimal portfolio. In other words, this portfolio reflects weightings of all these assets that provides the lowest risk for this particular return. Now, we can compute this for all the potential returns from the minimum return stock here up to the maximum. And if we did that for all of them, in fact there's an infinite number of them, so we couldn't really do it for all of them. You get a line. So our maximum return portfolio is up here and it would consist entirely of that one asset. But as we bring the return down we find a number of other portfolios all the way down to here. A couple of different things to observe that are interesting. One is as you reduce the return sometimes this curve comes back in this direction, indicating that actually the risk is increasing as we reduce the return. So for the most part, people don't want those sorts of portfolios. In other words, who wants a lower returning portfolio with more risk. So we typically look only at portfolios above this line. As you might have guessed, the name of this line is the efficient frontier. So what does that mean, the efficient frontier? It means that there are essentially no portfolios out here. And that any portfolio that's on this side of the frontier, it's suboptimal in some way. So for instance, if you had a portfolio here, you are assuming this much risk, for a lower return than you could have, than if you were up here on the frontier. Or if you were targeting this much return, you could be over here with regard to risk. So any portfolio inside here is not efficient because it's either higher risk or lower return than it could be if we were on the efficient frontier. One last thing to mention about the efficient frontier is if you draw a tangent line from the origin to the frontier where it hits is the max sharp ratio portfolio for all of these assets. In practice the efficient frontier isn't used for that much other than as a theoretical device, but people do often like to plot the efficient frontier so they can see where there portfolio is In relation to the assets that they're using and where they could be in terms of efficiency. Okay, that is all. I will see you online soon. Thank you very much.