In this lesson we're going to introduce how hedge funds and other financial institutions utilize machine learning. In general, the focus is on creating a model that can be used to predict future prices for stocks or other assets. Models like these have been around for a long time. What's different about machine learning is that it provides a suite of tools that support a data-centric way to build predictive models. In most cases, machine learning algorithms are focused on building a model. What's a model? A model is something that takes in observations like this x here, run it through some sort of process, and provide a y. So this y is typically a prediction, and the x is some sort of observation of the world. Now, over here are our forecasting options, and this is how we tell the machine learning algorithm which factors we want to use, how far in the future do we want to predict, and so on. We're using right now the default model, and what that is is that's the list of factors that we think are important for making a future price prediction. So we can click here and see what those factors are. This is the list of factors that we're using now. So it turns out that these factors are determined using another machine learning algorithm. We use a genetic algorithm for discovering these. That's a subject for a different lecture. As you saw by that Beck test, regression-based forecasting can be useful. It's also worth noting that that particular Beck test was not spectacular. It did indeed beat the S&P 500, which is important, but it didn't beat it spectacularly. [LAUGH] Usually we find that performance in the real world Is not as awesome as in back testing. So we would probably still see good return from that strategy but it wouldn't be quite the same as we saw in that back test. So I want a list a few problems we see sometimes with regression based forecasting. First of all, our forecasts always seem to be noisy and uncertain. So there is value in there, but it has to be accumulated over many trading opportunities. It's hard to know how confident you should be in a forecast. I mentioned in my software demo a moment ago that we could look at standard deviation of the nearest neighbors. That works okay. It's really not too strong of a measure, however. So it's difficult to know how confident you ought to be in any particular forecast. It would be nice if you could know because that would enable you to essentially bet less on forecasts that are less certain. Additionally, it's not clear how long you should hold a position that might have arisen from a forecast, and how you should allocate to that position. These are all challenges using regression based forecasting. Some of these issues can be addressed using reinforcement learning. Where instead of making a forecast of a future price, we had the system learn a policy and the policy tells the system whether to buy or sell a stock. We'll get to this towards the end of this class but it's an interesting alternative to the regression based approaches we're going to use here at the beginning of the class.